---
title: "Hearts"
date: 2024-05-28
---
# Hearts experiment 
This experiment was designed to provide an eye-catching visual impact by randomly moving many hearts across the canvas. The animation is made more interesting by the distinct qualities of each heart, such as its size, position, and colour. The erratic movement of the hearts produces a vibrant and dynamic scene, showcasing how p5.js uses object-oriented programming to efficiently manage and animate many object. The initiation was to develop a stand alone swarm of hearts that move and engage in certain motion patterns. I also tried different approaches of the class-object model to implement and control hearts during the process of application development. First, I built the Heart base class that held the x, y, size, speed, and color fields. The update position of each triangle was changed using the move method, on the other hand the display method used the draw shape method to draw the shape of each triangle as a heart. Subroutines which were challenging to write include the drawHeart because it demanded writing of the bezierVertex function in order to draw a heart like shape. In this case, through trial and demonstration, I have come up with the relevant illusion as intended.

[Try it!](/skills-github-pages/Experiment44/Hearts/index.html)

# Hearts Keyboard
Perhaps it's worth starting with the fact that the idea for this code was taken from the example on the republishable website p5.Js , which used rectangles to visualize keystrokes. The setting parameter initializes the canvas and determines the shade of the background. The drawing option is left empty so that the canvas is constantly updated and waits for keystrokes. This function checks if the secret letter is pressed. If a secret letter containing no letters is pressed, the log is cleared to reset the settings. If a secret letter is pressed, a heart is drawn in the corresponding role, primarily based on the index of the key. The coronary part of the heart is always highlighted with a random shade. This function draws the shape of the coronary part of the heart in the right place (x, y) of a given length. The bezierVertex function is used to create the shape of the coronary part of the heart.
One of the main tasks was to create the correct shape of the heart. Using bezierVertex to create a clean and visually appealing image of the coronary heart required exceptional adjustment of the control factors for Bezier curves. Displaying the pressed keys in precise positions on the canvas required that the hearts be placed at a sufficient distance from each other and be healthy across the entire width of the canvas. To do this, it was necessary to calculate the width of the coronary artery and use the display function correctly. Ensuring that each heart had a completely unique random color was trustworthy, but required careful shade selection to avoid overly shiny or darkish hearts. Adaptation of the original example from the website p5.Js In which rectangles were used, the love of hearts was not associated with the most effective shape change, but with the additional complication of drawing hearts using curves. In this edition, additional efforts were required to make the hearts visually attractive and well-positioned.

[Try it!](/skills-github-pages/Experiment1111/Hearts_keyboard/index.html)

# Big Heart 
This code creates an interactive animation wherein the size and shade of the heart dynamically change depending on the horizontal position of the mouse (mouseX). The customization feature initializes the canvas with a width of 720 pixels and a top of four hundred pixels. It disables the outline of shapes the use of the noStroke() characteristic in order that handiest the fill coloration is visible. The drawing feature is called once more to display the animation. At the start of each body, the historical past is ready to black to clean the picture of the preceding body. C controls the green thing of the fill colour inside the range from zero to 175. D controls the scale of the heart in the range from forty to three hundred pixels. The fill feature units the orange hue of the heart, which changes depending on the press of the mouse button. The drawHeart function is known as to draw a heart within the center of the canvas, the scale of that is determined through the cost of the mouseX parameter. This characteristic draws the form of a heart in a given position (x, y) with a given length. The beginShape and endShape features are used to create a custom shape. The vertex and bezierVertex functions define the Bezier factors and curves needed to create a heart shape. The maximum tough a part of working in this code turned into the exact construction of the heart form the usage of Bezier curves. Unlike easy geometric shapes, the heart form calls for precise manipulate factors to make it appearance visually appealing. Fine-tuning bezierVertex parameters to attain a clean and symmetrical heart shape required a number of trial and error. Careful modifications were additionally required to make sure the appropriate scaling of the heart and to hold its proportions whilst resizing consistent with the mouseX price. As a result of solving those troubles, an interactive heart shape is finally acquired, which dynamically modifications length and color, growing an attractive visual effect. The supply of inspiration for the introduction of this interactive method become the example at the reputable website p5.Js , which originally used an ellipse to visualize changes based totally on mouseX

[Try it!](/skills-github-pages/Experiment1212/Big_Heart/index.html)
