---
title: "Rainbow-2"
date: 2024-05-28
---

# Rainbow experiment part 2 
The main idea was to design and implement an attractive particle system based on the already existing concept of mouse interaction, where each particle has its own shape and changes color. The development process began with the basic setup of a simple particle system. The system releases particles depending on the position of the mouse pointer – first, each particle is given an arbitrary speed of movement, and then it gradually decreases. An object-oriented programming approach has also been applied to develop the actions and characteristics of each particle and the entire system as a whole. Another creative improvement was the change in the geometric configuration of the particles. Each particle has a round shape, and a star grows out of it. This was done by implementing a custom function that draws lines between points based on linear interpolation of the radii of a circle and a star using sinusoidal functions to achieve gradient transitions. In addition, the transitions of the color scheme should be noted. When the lifetime of a particle is compared with the hue value, the particles look as if they emit a rainbow before disappearing. This was done in HSB color mode (hue, saturation, brightness) because it provides a smooth color gradient depending on the lifetime of the particle. As with any development process, there were some problems when developing the artifact. When switching between different shapes, the functionality or rather the interpolation had to be adjusted to avoid any drastic changes between the different shapes, and for this reason the coefficient of the sinusoidal function was also adjusted. Also, optimization of the update and display functions, as well as efficient memory management, made it possible to circumvent this problem. Thus, confirming the feasibility of this project, it can be argued that the integration of PS with DSTS shapes and colors is viable. Another important advantage is the element that allows you to track mouse movement using particles, which increases the attractiveness of interaction with the site. Nevertheless, the result is aesthetically pleasing. It was noted that in subsequent versions there were more complex interactions, more effects that could be added. Overall, this project allowed me to test some of the creative coding principles that I have in stock and improve my understanding of p5 systems. js and particles.

[Try it!](/skills-github-pages/Experiment22/Rainbow2/index.html)
