---
title: "Following"
date: 2024-05-28
---

# Rainbow experiment

In this project, we explore methods for creating creative code, paying special attention to the p5. js programming language, in which users can add various particles of various shapes and change their shape without having to reboot or update. The basis or source of inspiration for this work was the example of working with particle systems in the classroom. The goal was to play with visual effects such as particle motion, color variations, and shape distortions in order to truly draw attention to aesthetics and engage the viewer.
The code development process began with the creation of a basic particle system. Depending on the probability depending on the mouse position, the velocity and position of each particle are set randomly. This system can constantly create new particles and move them, many of which disappear over time. In this case, two parameters can be changed using object-oriented scripting to determine the movement of individual particles and the particle system as a whole.
Another creative and rather controversial concept in this project, requiring critical reflection, was the color change. When the lifetime of the particles causes a change in hue, the particles acquire an iridescent hue as soon as they disappear. This was done using the HSB color mode, which is an improved method compared to the basic color mode, since it allows you to bind the color gradient to the lifetime of the particle.
Another feature of this project that requires attention is the morphology, in which particles are depicted in the process of changing shape. Each particle is a convex polygon, the shape of which becomes round/star-shaped when moving. This is made possible by the modified drawMorphingShape function, which draws a circle and a star and uses a sinusoidal function to interpolate between two circles depending on their radii. This interpolation provides a clear transition from one shape to another – as a result, the particles acquire greater depth and attractiveness.

# Rainbow Experiment - 2 

[Try it!](/skills-github-pages/Experiment11/Rainbow1/index.html)


The main idea was to design and implement an attractive particle system based on the already existing concept of mouse interaction, where each particle has its own shape and changes color. The development process began with the basic setup of a simple particle system. The system releases particles depending on the position of the mouse pointer – first, each particle is given an arbitrary speed of movement, and then it gradually decreases. An object-oriented programming approach has also been applied to develop the actions and characteristics of each particle and the entire system as a whole. Another creative improvement was the change in the geometric configuration of the particles. Each particle has a round shape, and a star grows out of it. This was done by implementing a custom function that draws lines between points based on linear interpolation of the radii of a circle and a star using sinusoidal functions to achieve gradient transitions. In addition, the transitions of the color scheme should be noted. When the lifetime of a particle is compared with the hue value, the particles look as if they emit a rainbow before disappearing. This was done in HSB color mode (hue, saturation, brightness) because it provides a smooth color gradient depending on the lifetime of the particle. As with any development process, there were some problems when developing the artifact. When switching between different shapes, the functionality or rather the interpolation had to be adjusted to avoid any drastic changes between the different shapes, and for this reason the coefficient of the sinusoidal function was also adjusted. Also, optimization of the update and display functions, as well as efficient memory management, made it possible to circumvent this problem. Thus, confirming the feasibility of this project, it can be argued that the integration of PS with DSTS shapes and colors is viable. Another important advantage is the element that allows you to track mouse movement using particles, which increases the attractiveness of interaction with the site. Nevertheless, the result is aesthetically pleasing. It was noted that in subsequent versions there were more complex interactions, more effects that could be added. Overall, this project allowed me to test some of the creative coding principles that I have in stock and improve my understanding of p5 systems. js and particles.

[Try it!](/skills-github-pages/Experiment22/Rainbow2/index.html)

# Snake 
Because of p5.js editor I managed to create a chain of ellipses that moves like a snake following the mouse cursor. Initially, I set up arrays of x and y coordinates for each segment. The customization function adjusts the canvas. Removes the contours of the shapes. Then, in another function (the drawing function), the canvas is cleared, a segment is placed in which the mouse systematically moves each subsequent segment based on the location of its neighbors in front, which leads to a smooth movement resembling a snake. The dragSegment function calculates the angle between a segment and its target position in order to update the segment coordinates accordingly. The segment function draws an ellipse at each location of the segment with varying sizes and colors, turning into a gradient.

During this project, I encountered difficulties in ensuring movement and avoiding transitions between segments. Calculating angles and updating positions between segments without overlaps or breaks turned out to be quite a difficult task. In addition, synchronizing the changing sizes and colors of the gradient required fine-tuning the parameters to achieve the effect.
If I had time, I would add elements to it, for example, adjust the colors of the segments depending on speed or direction. I might even have included keyboard controls to control the snake. To create this, I constantly had new ideas.

[Try it!](/skills-github-pages/Experiment88/Snake/index.html)

